content: Discuss expectations and verification of source provenance (#1380)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/draft/source-requirements.md

information about how a specific revision was created and how it came to exist
on a protected branch or how a tag came to point at it. They are associated
with the revision identifier delivered to consumers and are a statement of fact
from the perspective of the SCS. The SCS MUST document the format and intent of
all Source Provenance attestations it produces.

At Source Level 3, Source Provenance MUST be created contemporaneously with the
branch being updated to use that revision such that they provide a credible,
auditable, record of changes.

If a consumer is authorized to access a revision, they MUST be able to fetch the

> corresponding source provenance documents for that revision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
corresponding Source Provenance attestations for that revision.
```

To provide interoperability and ensure ease of use, it's essential that the summary attestations are applicable across all Source Control Systems.
Due to the significant differences in how SCSs operate and how they may chose to meet the Source Track requirements it is preferable to

> allow for flexibility with the provenance attestations. To that end SLSA leaves provenance attestations undefined and up to the SCSs to determine

Author: done!

E.g. GitHub-based workflows may need different evidence than Gerrit-based workflows, which would both likely be different from workflows that
operate over Subversion repositories.

> 

Author: It may be worth adding @TomHennen's list of scenarios where someone's inspecting source provenance here.

See: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues/1368#issuecomment-2876639399

Author: Added a reduced version:

```
This evidence can be used by:
- an authority as the basis for issuing a [Summary Attestation](#summary-attestation)
- a consumer to cross-check a [Summary Attestation](#summary-attestation) they received for a revision
- a consumer to enforce a more detailed policy than the organization's change management process
```

Source provenance attestations provide tamper-proof evidence (ideally signed [in-toto attestations](https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/README.md))
that can be used to determine what SLSA Source Level or other high level properties a given revision meets.

> This evidence can be used by:

Author: I think it's important to have the "why" for the provenance attestations when we introduce them. Perhaps we can take out the enumeration in verifying-source and point to this section in source-requirements?

> This evidence can be used by:

Author: I've made this change but happy to flip this around depending on what's preferred more broadly!

> This evidence can be used by:

Author: Current deploy:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/49c2f908-9a08-4581-8e3d-5f8b3a344746)

-   an authority as the basis for issuing a [Summary Attestation](#summary-attestation)

> -   a consumer to cross-check a [Summary Attestation](#summary-attestation) they received for a revision

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   a consumer to cross-check a [Verification Summary Attestation](#summary-attestation) (VSA) they received for a revision
```

-   a consumer to enforce a more detailed policy than the organization's change management process

SCSs may have different methods of operating that necessitate different forms of evidence.
E.g. GitHub-based workflows may need different evidence than Gerrit-based workflows, which would both likely be different from workflows that
operate over Subversion repositories.

These differences also mean that, depending on the configuration, the issuers of provenance attestations may vary from implementation to implementation, often because entities with the knowledge to issue them may vary.

> The authority that issues [summary-attestations](#summary-attestation) MUST understand which entity should issue each provenance attestation type and ensure the provenance attestations come from the appropriate issuer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authority that issues [Verification Summary Attestations](#summary-attestation) (VSAs) MUST ensure all provenance attestations come from their expected issuers.
```

-   A [SCAI attestation](https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/predicates/scai.md) used to
 describe which source quality tools were run on the revision.

Irrespective of the types of provenance attestations generated by an SCS and

> their implementations, the SCS and the organization MUST document provenance

Reviewer 2: Maybe we just leave 'the organization' out of it?  The SCS defines the formats I'm not sure the org needs to be involved here?

```suggestion
their implementations, the SCS MUST document provenance
```
